---
layout: post
title: Get Started - Beginner's Guide to Learning Japanese
description: A guide for beginners to learn Japanese with free resources for Hiragana, Katakana, Kanji and speaking..
image:
  path: https://ukiyoserver.live/assets/images/Banner-2_1.webp
  alt: A banner with a cat image and Ukiyo
author: Ukiyo
tags: Japanese N5 Starter-Guide
category: Guides
published: false
---

I know this might be a pretty big guide and maybe you don't even want to read it whole. But trust me this is the most detailed starter guide you might find. Once you have read this you wouldn't need another guide.

## Features of Japanese

1. ### Parts of Speech

    Japanese is a language comprised of verbs, adjectives, nouns, adverbs, conjunctions and particles.

2. ### Word Order

    A predicate always comes at the end of a sentence and a modifier always comes before the word or phrase to be modified.

3. ### Predicate

    There are 3 types of predicates in Japanese: noun, verb and adjective. A predicate inflects according to weather it is:

    1. affirmative or negative and
    2. non-past or past.

    Adjective are divided into 2 types according to thier type of inflection.
    They are called い-adjectives and な-adjectives.

4. ### Particles

    A particle shows the grammatical relation between words, and speaker's intention or to connect sentences.

5. ### Omission

    Words or ohrases are often omitted if they are understood from the context. Even subject and object of the sentence are often omitted.

## Japanese Scripts

 There are 3 types of letters in Japanese:

 1. Hiragana,
 2. Katakana, and
 3. Kanji.

 Hiragana and Katakana are phonetic representations of sounds and each letter corresponds to one mora [^a]. Kanji convey meanings as well as sounds.

 In Japanese, all 3 types of letters are used together. Katakana is used to write foreign names and loan words. 1945 kanji letters are fixed as essential for daily use. Other than these 3 types of letters, romaji (Roman letter) are sometimes used for the convenience of foreigners. You may see romaji at stations and on sign-boards. Below are examples of all 3 types of scripts:

 **Sentence:** <span style="color: rgb(239 68 68);">山田</span>　<span style="color: rgb(34 197 94);">さん　は</span>　<span style="color: rgb(59 130 246)">ミラー</span>　<span style="color: rgb(34 197 9);">さん　と</span>　<span style="color: rgb(59 130 246)">デパートメント</span>　<span style="color: rgb(34 197 94);">へ</span>　<span style="color: rgb(239 68 68);">行</span>　<span style="color: rgb(34 197 94);">きます。</span>

  **Meaning:** Mr. Yamada is going to the department store with Mr. Miller.

 <span style="color: rgb(239 68 68);">Red</span> = Kanji,
 <span style="color: rgb(34 197 9);">Green</span> = Hiragana,
 <span style="color: rgb(59 130 246)">Blue</span> = Katakana

## Pronunciation of Japanese

1. ### Kana and Mora

    e.g. - あ　ア　a, <br>あ is Hiragana Script, ア is Katakana Script and a is the Roman alphabet.
    <br> Complete [Hiragana](/resource/hiragana/) and [Katakana](/resource/katakana/) chart with audio and animated stroke order.

    ||あ-line|い-line|う-line|え-line|お-line|
    | :-----------: | :-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |
    |-|あ　ア<br>a|い　イ<br>i|う　ウ<br>u|え　エ<br>e|お　オ<br>o|
    |k|か　カ<br>ka|き　キ<br>ki|く　ク<br>ku|け　ケ<br>ke|こ　コ<br>ko|
    |s|さ　サ<br>sa|し　シ<br>shi|す　ス<br>su|せ　セ<br>se|そ　ソ<br>so|
    |t|た　タ<br>ta|ち　チ<br>chi|つ　ツ<br>tsu|て　テ<br>te|と　ト<br>to|
    |n|な　ナ<br>na|に　ニ<br>ni|ぬ　ヌ<br>nu|ね　ネ<br>ne|の　ノ<br>no|
    |h|は　ハ<br>ha|ひ　ヒ<br>hi|ふ　フ<br>fu|へ　ヘ<br>he|ほ　ホ<br>ho|
    |m|ま　マ<br>ma|み　ミ<br>mi|む　ム<br>mu|め　メ<br>me|も　モ<br>mo|
    |y|や　ヤ<br>ya||ゆ　ユ<br>yu||よ　ヨ<br>yo|
    |r|ら　ラ<br>ra|り　リ<br>ri|る　ツ<br>ru|れ　レ<br>re|ろ　ロ<br>ro|
    |w|わ　ワ<br>wa||||を　ヲ<br>wo|
    |-|ん　ン<br>n|

    ||あ-line|い-line|う-line|え-line|お-line|
    | :-----------: | :-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |
    |g|が　ガ<br>ga|ぎ　ギ<br>ki|ぐ　グ<br>ku|げ　ゲ<br>ke|ご　ゴ<br>ko|
    |z|ざ　ザ<br>za|じ　ジ<br>ji|ず　ズ<br>zu|ぜ　ゼ<br>ze|ぞ　ゾ<br>zo|
    |d|だ　ダ<br>da|ぢ　ヂ<br>ji|づ　ヅ<br>zu|で　デ<br>de|ど　ド<br>do|
    |b|ば　バ<br>ba|び　ビ<br>bi|ぶ　ブ<br>bu|べ　ベ<br>be|ぼ　ボ<br>bo|
    |p|ぱ　パ<br>pa|ぴ　ピ<br>pi|ぷ　プ<br>pu|ぺ　ペ<br>pe|ぽ　ポ<br>po|

    ||a|u|o|
    | :-----------: | :-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |
    |ky|きゃ　キャ<br>kya|きゅ　キュ<br>kyu|きょ　キョ<br>kyo|
    |sh|しゃ　シャ<br>sha|しゅ　シュ<br>shu|しょ　ショ<br>sho|
    |ch|ちゃ　チャ<br>cha|ちゅ　チュ<br>chu|ちょ　チョ<br>cho|
    |ny|にゃ　ニャ<br>nya|にゅ　ニュ<br>nyu|にょ　ニョ<br>nyo|
    |hy|ひゃ　ヒャ<br>hya|ひゅ　ヒュ<br>hyu|ひょ　ヒョ<br>hyo|
    |my|みゃ　ミャ<br>mya|みゅ　ミュ<br>myu|みょ　ミョ<br>myo|
    |ry|りゃ　リャ<br>rya|りゅ　リュ<br>ryu|りょ　リョ<br>ryo|
    |gy|ぎゃ　ギャ<br>gya|ぎゅ　ギュ<br>gyu|ぎょ　ギョ<br>gyo|
    |j|じゃ　ジャ<br>ja|じゅ　ジュ<br>ju|じょ　ジョ<br>jo|
    |||||
    | :-----------: | :-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |
    |by|びゃ　ビャ<br>bya|びゅ　ビュ<br>byu|びょ　ビョ<br>byo|
    |py|ぴゃ　ピャ<br>pya|ぴゅ　ピュ<br>pyu|ぴょ　ピョ<br>pyo|

    The katakana letters in the following table are not in the above table. They are used to write sounds which are not Japanese sounds but are needed for loan words.

    |a|i|u|e|o|
    | :-----------: | :-----------: |:-----------: |:-----------: |
    ||ウィ　wi||ウェ　we|ウョ　wo|
    ||||シェ　she||
    ||||チェ　che||
    |ツァ　tsa|||ツェ　tse|ツォ　tso|
    ||チィ　ti|ト　tu|||
    |ファ　fa|フィ　fi||フェ　fe|フォ　fo|
    ||||ジェ　je||
    ||ヂィ　di|ヂ　du|||
    |||ヂュ　dyu|||

    The Japanese language is based on five vowel sounds: あ (a), い (i), う (u), え (e) and お (o) (see on the table [above](#pronunciation-of-japanese)). All spoken sounds are derived from these 5 vowels. They are used alone and attached to either a consonant (e.g., k + a = か) or a consonant plus the semi-vowel "y" (e.g., k + y + a = きゃ). The exception to this is a special mora, ん (n), which is not followed by vowels. All these sounds are of equal length when spoken (e.g., き、きゃ。).

2. ### Long Vowels

    A long vowel is pronounced twice as long as the ordinary vowel, a, i, e and o. If you count the length of the vowel a as one, Then the length of the long vowel aa is counted as two. This means a is one moral long, whereas aa is two moral long.

    Whether oval is long or not, can change the meaning of the word.

    e.g., Uncle, grandpa
        Snow Courage
        Picture, yes
        Take pass
        Here, high school
        Room plain
        aunt Grandmother
        Tape notebook
        Card, taxi supermarket

    1. How to write long vowels in hiragana.

        1. The long vowels of the **あ**-line.<br>
            Add **あ** to the hiragana letters from **あ**-line.

        2. The long vowels of the **い**-line.<br>
            Add **い** to the hiragana letters from **い**-line.

        3. The long vowels of the **う**-line.<br>
            Add **う** to the hiragana letters from **う**-line.

        4. The long vowels of the **え**-line.<br>
            Add **い** to the hiragana letters from **え**-line.<br>
            (exceptions: え<ins>え</ins> yes, ね<ins>え</ins> say, おね<ins>え</ins>さん elder sister)

        5. The long vowels of the **お**-line.<br>
            Add **う** to the hiragana letters from **お**-line.<br>
            (exceptions: お<ins>お</ins>きい big, お<ins>お</ins>い many, と<ins>お</ins>い far, and some more)

    2. How to write long vowels in katakana.

        For all the lines just add "ー".

3. ### Pronunciation of ん

    No word starts with ん. It constitutes one mora. For easier pronunciation, the way it is said changes according to the sound that comes from it.

    1. It is Pronunced /n/ before the sounds in た-, だ-, ら- and な-rows.<br>
        e.g., み<ins>ん</ins>な everyone, は<ins>ん</ins>たい opposite, み<ins>ん</ins>な, う<ins>ん</ins>どう sport, せ<ins>ん</ins>ろ rail
    2. It is Pronunced /m/ before the sounds in the は-, ぱ- and ま-rows.<br>
        e.g., え<ins>ん</ins>ぴつ pe<ins>n</ins>cil, じ<ins>ん</ins>ぶん newspaper, う<ins>ん</ins>めい destiny
    3. It is Pronunced /ɲ/ before the sounds in the か- and が-rows.<br>
        e.g., でんき weather, けんがく visit

4. ### Pronunciation of つ

    つ appers before either か-, さ-,た- and ぱ- row. It constitutes one mora and has one mora's length. In writing loan words, it is used before sounds which belongs to the ザ-, グ-row, etc.

    e.g.,
     - ぶか subordinate:　ふ<ins>っ</ins>か commodity price
     - かさい fire:　か<ins>っ</ins>さい appluse
     - おと sound:　お<ins>っ</ins>と husband
     - に<ins>っ</ins>き diary,　ざ<ins>っ</ins>し magazine,　き<ins>っ</ins>て stamp
     - い<ins>っ</ins>ぱい a cup of ~,　コ<ins>ッ</ins>プ glass,　ベ<ins>ッ</ins>ド bed

5. ### Pronunciation of letters combined with や, ゆ and よ

    き, ぎ, し, じ, ち, に, ひ, び, ぴ ,み or り can be combined with　ゃ, ゅ or ょ, and the two letters together constitute one mora.

    e.g.,
     - ひやく jump:　<ins>ひゃ</ins>く hundred
     - じゆう freedom: <ins>じゅ</ins>う ten
     - びよういん beauty parlor: 　<ins>びょ</ins>ういん hospital
     - <ins>ぎゅ</ins>う<ins>にゅ</ins>う milk, <ins>シャ</ins>ツ shirt, お<ins>ちゃ</ins> tea
     - <ins>りょ</ins>こう travel, <ins>きょ</ins> today,　ぶ<ins>ちょ</ins>う department chief

6. ### Pronunciation of the が-row

    When consonant of this row comes at the beginning of a word, is pronounced [ g ] and in other casses, it is usually pronounced as [ ɲ ]. Now a days some Japanese do not differentiate between [ g ] and [ ɲ ], and always use [ g ].

7. ### Devoicing of vowels [ i ] and [ u ]

    The vowels [ i ] and [ u ] Are divorced and not heard when they come between voiceless consonants. The vowel [ u ] of [ su ] in 〜です or 〜ます is also devoiced When the sentence finishes with either 〜です OR 〜ます

    e.g.,
     - <ins>すき like
     - <ins>したいで<ins>す want to do
     - <ins>ききま<ins>す listen

8. ### Accent

    The Japanese language has pitch accent. That is some morals in a word pronounced high and others low. The words are divided into two types according to whether a word has a falling pitch or not. Words with a falling pitch are subdivided into three types according to where the fall in pitch occurs, the standard Japanese accent is characterised by the fact that the first and the second moras has the different pitches, and that the pitch never rises again once it has fallen.

9. ### Intonation

    There are three patterns. They are:
      1. flat,
      2. rising and
      3. falling.

    Questions are pronounced with a rising intonation. Other sentences are usually pronounced flat, but sometimes with a falling intonation. A falling intonation can be express feelings such as agreements or disappointment, etc.

    e.g.,<br>
     佐藤　：　あした友達と　お花見を　します。「→ flat」<br>
        　　　　　ミラーさんも　いっしょに　行きませんか。「⤴ rising」<br>
     ミラー：ああ、いいですねえ。　「⤵ falling」<br>

     Sato: I'll go to the cherry blossoms with my friends tomorrow.<br>
     　　　Won't you come with us, Mr. Miller<br>
     Miller: Oh, that sounds good.<br>

###### Notes

[^a]: A mora is a unit of sound in Japanese.
